---
title: Impact
category: guide
author: Robin Andeer
date: 2020-06-10
tags: guides, javascript, programming
intro: My personal vault of developer resources that I keep coming back to. 

draft: true
---

## Background

We recently came out of the spring career talks. That time for reflection got me thinking what causes me to use my skills to create the biggest impact. Not impact as in money earned but more holistically.

## The impact equation

```javascript
function calculateImpact(time, happiness, experience, responsibilities) {
  return time / (1 - X) * happiness * experience;
}
```

Let's break it down. What I'm saying here is that impact is a function of time, happiness,

## Motivation or inspiration

Inspiration leads to motivation. You can't have one without the other. For the sake of our equation they are represented by the same variable.

High motivation gives you the **ability to focus**. It stops you from procrastinating. Imagine really wanting to get something done. That feeling can keep you awake at night, even making you forget to sleep. Lack of motivation, on the other hand, can lead you to think about _anything_ but the problem at hand. When I'm tasked with doing something that I don't feel like doing I look for anything else to take my mind off of it, like cleaning or sorting clothes (and I'm far from a Marie Condo.)

### Focus

Focus is a state of mind. It comes a result of being motivated enough to put the tasks at hand in the front of your mind.

## Experience

It's clear that working on stuff you have experience in will make you more productive from day 1. Compare a web developer deciding building an iOS app or "another" web app with the same feature set - which version of the app do you think she would finish quickest?

Working on problems that you're familiar with and being in control of what you're trying to accomplish is empowering. It makes you productive. However, a project still needs to offer a challenge to some extent. Without the challenge, no motivation.

I look at the role of experience as an unsupervised learning problem. An expert will make good guessed at a starting value that quickly converges to the "most optimal" solution.

Tunnelvision = overfitting an algorigthm!!

It's of course possible to learn over the course of a given project. Talent for a given skill becomes a factor. I would say that experience is a function itself of *time* and *talent*.

## Responsibilities

Having too many responsibilities will not allow you to focus and be productive on solving any problem. However, some projects can act as a nice distraction and motivate you to get back to less inspiring tasks. Focusing on only a single problem for too long risks giving you tunnel vision. Sometimes you need to take a step back from your projects to not loose sight of the big picture.

Responsibilities needs to be in balance. Too many at the same time is not good. Too few will not allow you to direct your focus on alternatives when your main problem fails to motivate you.

I treat side projects as a way to motivate my day-to-day work. There I get to experiment on cool things and do a little of whatever I want. After spending time on those initiative, I can most often return to less inspiring tasks with renewed motivation.

## Time

Until some point, time is linearly related to making an impact. I imagine building a simple website during one week compared to two weeks. It's fairly likely that my output after twice the time will be twice as impactful. However, until some point *time* sizes to be such an important factor. After 3 months works on the website, one or two weeks more doesn't necessarily make much difference. Other factors has a much greater effect.
