---
title: Identity
category: thoughts
author: Robin Andeer
date: 2015-06-20
tags: thought
---

> And I see myself wandering  
> While my friends chase their dreams  
> I’m sure there are some things that can slow them down  
> But they finally get on with it

<small>_[Am I Wasting My Time][ele-song] by Ele_</small>

I was in a job interview. A question was raised from my atypically honest
personal letter: "What do you mean when you write you are 'introverted'?"
Keep in mind that "[Quiet][quiet]" was my gospel and Susan Cain my idol at
the time. So I happily shared why being an introvert made me an ideal
employee; hardworking and loyal. I've accepted it as a key piece of my
identity. I wear my INTP badge with pride.

--------------------

Identity. The mental model and expression of who I am. The unique combination
of characteristics that define me. It's partly shaped by my own choices
but also by stuff where the only choice is acceptance. However, I've found
that telling one from the other is sometimes deceptively tricky.

It's been said before but for most of my life, I've felt as though I really
didn't fit in. I kept a low profile in school. If anything it was just
painfully uneventful. That made me struggle to find a way to carve out my
own dent in the world. Being true to myself is scary though. I fear being
rejected (or ignored) precisely for being who I am. At the same time, I've
realized that to be happy there's no getting around making myself voulnerable.

So how do I get there? I've always believed in the power of inner motivation.
It worked more than well when I studied, which represents the better part of
my life. In the end my inner self will be the only thing I can trust to always
fall back on. However, it simply won't get me all the way.

Enter external motivation. Part of my identity is formed through my
identification with others. It may either be an aspiration to be like someone
else or a wish to dissociate from other's characteristics.

I was recently on a trajectory that I *really* enjoyed. I met someone I
could share anything with. I lost count of the times where our minds collided
in moments of surprise and laughter. It was as real as it was unexpected.
It really hadn't started before it was over but in the mean time I inadvertantly
made it part of my identity. Now it's time to sort things out.

--------------------

In a way my identity is kind of a puzzel that I keep building. Piece by piece.
When I've found one that matches - I need to trust my intuition to leave it
there and move on to the next.


[ele-song]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I32fTaNjoAU
[quiet]: http://www.amazon.com/Quiet-Power-Introverts-World-Talking/dp/0307352153
